# PreProcessing API v1.0.0

## Common provisions

#### Terminology

The terminology of [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) (specifically __must__, __should__, __may__ and their negatives) applies.  The word __will__, when applied to the Service API, has the same meaning as __must__.

#### Protocol

The API supports communication over HTTPS only.

#### Encoding

The API supports communication using JSON encoding only, with rare specific exceptions.  The client __must__ submit the headers `Content-Type: application/json` and `Accept: application/json` for all requests.  Failure to do so __will__ result in a `415 Unsupported Media Type` response.  Unless otherwise specified, the API __will__ include the header `Content-Type: application/json` with its response.

#### Authentication

The API is authenticated by a JWT bearer token.  Two token sources are accepted:
* Tokens generated by Amazon Cognito and acquired from the Hardware [`accessory/login`]() endpoint;

The client __must__ submit the header `Authorization: <JWT>` with all requests. Failure to do so, or submitting an invalid or expired JWT, __will__ result in a `401 Unauthorized` response.  

#### General responses

In addition to the AWS API Gateway responses and the specific responses for each endpoint, the server __may__ respond with one of the following HTTP responses:

* `400 Bad Request` with `Status` header equal to `InvalidSchema`, if the JSON body of the request does not match the requirements of the endpoint.
* `404 Unknown` with `Status` header equal to `UnknownEndpoint`, if an invalid endpoint was requested.

## Schema

### Simple

The following simple types __may__ be used in responses:
* `string`, `number`: as defined in the [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org) standard.
* `Uuid`: a `string` matching the regular expression `^[0-9a-f]{8}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{4}-[0-9a-f]{12}$`, that is, the string representation of an [RFC 4122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122) UUID.
* `Datetime`: a `string` matching the regular expression `/\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}T\d{2}:\d{2}:\d{2}(Z|+\d{2}:\d{2})/` and representing a date and time in full ISO 8601 format.
* `MacAddress`: a `string` matching the regular expression `/{[0-9a-f]{2}(:[0-9a-f]{2}){5}/`, that is six groups of two hexadecimal characters, separated by colons.

### Session

A `Session` object __will__ have the following schema:

```
{
	"session_id": Uuid,
	"event_date": Datetime,
	"created_date": Datetime,
	"updated_date": Datetime,
	"session_status": string
}
```

The following constraints __will__ apply:

* `session_status` __will__ be one of the strings `CREATE_COMPLETE`, `UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS`, `UPLOAD_COMPLETE`, `PROCESSING_IN_PROGRESS`, `PROCESSING_COMPLETE` or `PROCESSING_FAILED`.  For a newly-created session, the status __should__ be `CREATE_COMPLETE`.

## Endpoints

### Session

#### Create

This endpoint can be called to register a new session.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/session`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object with the following schema:

```
{
    "sensors": [ MacAddress, MacAddress, MacAddress ],
    "event_date": Datetime,
    "end_date": Datetime
}
```

* `sensors` __must__ be a list of exactly three MacAddresses, each of which is the ID of a sensor from which data is being collected.
* `event_date` __should__ reflect the time that the practice session began.
* `end_date` __should__ reflect the time that the practice session ended.

```
POST /hardware/1_0/session HTTP/1.1
Host: preprocessing.env.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "sensors": [
        "11:22:33:44:55:66",
        "22:33:44:55:66:77",
        "55:22:33:44:55:66"
    ],
    "event_date": "2016-12-09T08:21:15.123Z"
}

```

##### Responses
 
 If the registration was successful, the Service __will__ respond with HTTP Status `200 Ok` or `201 Created`, with a body with the following syntax:
 
```
{
    "session": Session
}
```

#### Upload data

This endpoint can be called to upload data for the session.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/session/<session_id>/upload`, where `session_id` __must__ be a Uuid of a previously-created session.

##### Request

Exceptionally, this endpoint accepts data in binary format instead of JSON. The client __must__ submit a `Content-Type` header of `application/octet-stream`, and binary data in the body of the request.

```
POST /hardware/1_0/session/92d694eb-3d53-46fa-8b14-746c9b5380ef/upload HTTP/1.1
Host: preprocessing.env.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/octet-stream
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

[raw bytes]
```

The size of the request body __must not__ exceed 8MB.

Clients __should not__ repeat upload requests which have previously succeeded, but __may__ retry requests for which an error response, or no response at all, was received. 

Clients __must not__ attempt an upload request for a session which has previously been successfully [marked as upload completed](#Completing data upload).

##### Responses
 
 If the upload was successful, the Service __will__ respond with HTTP Status `200 OK`, and with a body with the following syntax:
 
```
{
    "session": Session
}
```
 
If the request was not successful, the Service __may__ respond with:

* `406 Not Acceptable`, with a `Status` header equal to `InvalidContent`, if the body of the request was not correctly encoded.

#### Completing data upload

Once all the data from a session has been uploaded, the client __should__ use this endpoint to mark the upload as complete; the Service __may__ then begin processing and analysing the data.

##### Query String
 
The client __must__ submit a request to the endpoint `/session/<session_id>`, where `session_id` __must__ be the UUID of a previously-created session.  The HTTP method __must__ be `PATCH`.

##### Request

The client __must__ submit a request body containing a JSON object with the following schema:

```
{
    "session_status": "UPLOAD_COMPLETE"
}
```

* `session_status` __must__ be the string `UPLOAD_COMPLETE`.

```
PATCH /preprocessing/1_0/session/92d694eb-3d53-46fa-8b14-746c9b5380ef HTTP/1.1
Host: preprocessing.env.fathomai.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: eyJraWQ...ajBc4VQ

{
    "session_status": "UPLOAD_COMPLETE"
}

```

##### Response

If the request was successful, the Service __will__ respond with HTTP Status `200 OK`, and with a body with the following syntax:

```
{
    "session": Session
}
```

Where the `session_status` field __will not__ be `UPLOAD_IN_PROGRESS` or `CREATE_COMPLETE` (and __should__ be `UPLOAD_COMPLETE`, unless processing of the file has already begun).
 
If the request was not successful, the Service __may__ respond with:

* `400 Bad Request`, with a `Status` header equal to `NoData`, if the Service has not received any data uploads for this session.

